---
Title: Vault 1.1
Published: 2003-07-03 17:56:00
Excerpt: ""
views:
  - 'a:1:{i:0;s:3:"197";}'
dsq_thread_id:
  - 'a:1:{i:0;s:10:"3538637018";}'
author:
  - Marc LaFleur
post_date:
  - 2003-07-03 17:56:00
post_excerpt:
  - ""
permalink:
  - /vault-1-1/
---
<div><span class="750043616-03072003"><font face="Arial" size="2">This past week I've 
spent some time playing around with the 1.1 preview for <a href="http://www.sourcegear.com">Sourcegear's</a> <a href="http://www.sourcegear.com/vault/index.asp">Vault </a>source control 
system. After a few minutes I was impressed, after a few days I am in love with 
it.  </font></span></div>
<div><span class="750043616-03072003"><font face="Arial" size="2"></font></span> </div>
<div><span class="750043616-03072003"><font face="Arial" size="2">A little background 
on Vault might be in order. Vault is a full features Source Control system that 
handles both CVS and VSS versioning styles. It is also their answer for 
replacing Visual SourceSafe. They make this really easy by offering a complete 
migration tool. It was written using C# and uses ASP.NET Web Services to connect 
to its SQL Server database. All-in-all, very cool product.</font></span></div>
<div><span class="750043616-03072003"><font face="Arial" size="2"></font></span> </div>
<div><span class="750043616-03072003"><font face="Arial" size="2">The single most 
important improvement over 1.0 is the integration with <a href="http://www.fogcreek.com/FogBUGZ/">FogBUGZ</a>. Although other SCC 
providers can be integrated, Sourcegear is the only provider to build their 
implementation directly into the product. Most other implementations are simply 
hacks devised by FogBUGZ users to parse comments for the bug#. But with Vault 
you get a dedicated field for this purpose, making it a lot less error 
prone.</font></span></div>
<div><span class="750043616-03072003"><font face="Arial" size="2"></font></span> </div>
<div><font size="2"><span class="750043616-03072003"><font face="Arial">Integration 
with FogBUGZ gives Vault an almost complete answer to the <a href="http://www.borland.com/starteam/">Borland StarTeam</a> Task feature 
(my all time favorite SCC feature). Tasks allow you to put any collection of 
changes into a single context. For example, you could have a task "Fix error 
when printing" and every checkout and checkin would happen within the context of 
that task. This let you know what code was changed for any given task. 
</font></span><span class="750043616-03072003"><font face="Arial">Now I can achieve 
similar results with a combination of Vault &amp; FogBUGZ. So when you want to 
know exactly what was changed to fix your printing error, just look at FogBUGZ 
and it will list the files (you can even run a diff against them from 
your browser). </font></span></font></div>
<div><span class="750043616-03072003"><font face="Arial" size="2"></font></span> </div>
<div><span class="750043616-03072003"><font face="Arial" size="2">Why almost complete? 
It is still missing one key aspect of a task based system. In a true task based 
system, checkouts should be related to a task (not just the checkin). This 
is only a minor issue for me and if you use a CVS style of versioning then 
it isn't an issue at all (being that you don't checkout in the first place). 
</font></span></div>
<div><span class="750043616-03072003"><font face="Arial" size="2"></font></span> </div>
<div><span class="750043616-03072003"><font face="Arial" size="2">Most of the other 
changes seem are what you would expect from a point release. There are some 
noticeable performance improvements and I'm told the Visual SourceSafe import 
has improved a lot. There is also a new feature called Keyword Expansion but I 
have no earthy idea what that means. </font></span></div>