---
Title: Vault 2.0
Excerpt: ""
Tags: null
---
<p>Eric&nbsp;Sink announced what is to be included in Vault 2.0 today. Some pretty interesting and useful stuff in there. < ?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /><o:p></o:p></p>
<p>One of my favorites is the inclusion of lightweight tags for those of us who label like madmen and don&#8217;t need the full power of the previous version&#8217;s label solution. Vault 1.x labels are actually &#8220;pinned branches&#8221;. It is a very cool concept (unpin a label and, poof, you have a full-fledged branch) but it was often overkill. So now we have the lightweight tag called a &#8220;Label&#8221; and a pinned-branch called a &#8220;Snapshot&#8221; (and the standard &#8220;Branch&#8221; of course).<o:p></o:p></p>
<p>Eric and his crew just keep reinforcing my decision to buy their product. All things considered, they have the best product on the market right now. <o:p></o:p></p>
<p>Here is a more complete list of the changes:<o:p></o:p></p>
<ul>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">SourceGear DiffMerge</b>: New diff and merge applications replaces the diff and merge windows which were previously built-in to Vault.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Show Differences</b> allows several choices of how to compare the working file:<o:p></o:p></li>
<li>
<div style="MARGIN-LEFT: 0.5in">To its corresponding repository file<o:p></o:p></div></li>
<li>
<div style="MARGIN-LEFT: 0.5in">To a labeled version of the file<o:p></o:p></div></li>
<li>
<div style="MARGIN-LEFT: 0.5in">To another file on the local disk<o:p></o:p></div></li>
<li>
<div style="MARGIN-LEFT: 0.5in">To another repository file<o:p></o:p></div></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">External merge app</b>: Users who want to configure a different application for external merge can now do so.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Repository level security</b>: Allows a repository to be completely hidden from a user or group of users.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Web client</b>: Allows basic browsing of the contents and history of a repository using any web browser.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Needs Merge</b>: Files in a Needs Merge status are more obvious.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>They are shown in red in the pending changeset.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>At checkin time, a warning dialog reminds the user of the need to resolve the merge.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Obliterate</b>: Much, much faster.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>(This improvement will also be released in version 1.2.3)<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Shadow folders</b>: Automatically maintain a synchronized copy of the contents of a repository folder.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Lightweight labels</b>: SourceSafe-style labels (aka "tags"):<o:p></o:p></li>
<li>
<div style="MARGIN-LEFT: 0.5in">Very lightweight<o:p></o:p></div></li>
<li>
<div style="MARGIN-LEFT: 0.5in">Supported by the VSS Import Tool<o:p></o:p></div></li>
<li>
<div style="MARGIN-LEFT: 0.5in">Includes VSS-style "label promotion" feature<o:p></o:p></div></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Snapshots</b>: Vault 1.x labels are still supported, and are now known as "snapshots".<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Login Profiles</b>: Login faster by saving commonly used username/password information in profiles.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Prompt for overwrite</b>: During a Get Latest Version, specify that you want to be prompted before overwriting any edited file.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Unknown files</b>: By default, don't overwrite files with Unknown status.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Proxy authentication</b>: Support authentication for proxy servers which require it.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Copy from pending changeset</b>: The pending changeset panel allows copying the list of change items to the clipboard.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Ctrl-A</b>: For consistency with other Windows applications, Ctrl-A now maps to Select All.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Non-Windows platforms</b>: Using Mono, run the Vault command-line client under various Unix-ish platforms, including Linux, Solaris, and MacOS X.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Command-line client</b>: Lots of improvements to the Vault command-line client, including wildcards.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Merge Branches Wizard</b>: A new Merge Branches feature replaces the Merge Branch into Trunk feature.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li>
<div style="MARGIN-LEFT: 0.5in">Merge changes between branch and trunk in either direction.<o:p></o:p></div></li>
<li>
<div style="MARGIN-LEFT: 0.5in">Merge changes from any folder to any other repository folder, even if neither is a branch of the other.<o:p></o:p></div></li>
<li>
<div style="MARGIN-LEFT: 0.5in">Specify exactly which changes you want to merge from the origin folder to the target.<o:p></o:p></div></li>
<li>
<div style="MARGIN-LEFT: 0.5in">Option to automatically merge individual files or leave them in Needs Merge status for manual examination using the SourceGear DiffMerge app.<o:p></o:p></div></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Failed login</b>: Better error message avoids password-guessing attack.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Failed connection to SQL Server</b>: Better error message helps with resolution of common configuration problem.<o:p></o:p></li>
<li><b style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal">Checkin dialog</b>: When invoked from a context menu on a folder, the checkin dialog only lists the pending items which appear under that folder.</li></ul>